I have a podcast called rehash I co-host
it with my friend Hannah and it's all
about internet phenomena that get us all
up at Arms only to forget about them
within a week so we rehash them as they
say we just concluded our fifth season
which is all about what happens when art
meets the internet is the sun rising on
a new creative era or did it set before
it even began go check it
[Music]
out in the summer of 1994 the Pittsburgh
Post Gazette published in offed by Ultra
conservative politician Pat Buchanan
called Hollywood surprise hello I'm
Forest Gump and I'm a
conservative in the piece he calls the
titular character Forest Gump a faithful
honorable man while characterizing
Forest love interest Jenny the child
version of whom he calls a gorgeous
little blonde as a moral and sluttish
and then calls the leaders of the
anti-war peace movements in the movie A
sorry lot when discussing Forest time as
a soldier in Vietnam Buchanan remarks
that in Vietnam Forest shoots no one his
fellow soldiers commit no atrocities
they are not bitter at being there they
are decent workingclass kids faithful to
their countryes call to serve doing
their job for Buchanan this was all
intentional Forest Gump he argues though
simple and he uses the RW here always
does the decent honorable thing he lives
by the Golden Rule most proudly Buchanan
claims that Forest Gump is at its core a
conservative film then ends diet tribe
with the question how on Earth did this
film get through the PC
screeners and as much as I hate to say
it he had a point those people in
Washington behaved as if they did not
care how was it that a film so beloved
by the generally liberal Hollywood
Elites which swept up at the Academy
Awards beating out both Pulp Fiction and
the Sha Shank Redemption for best
picture and was the second highest grow
in film that year came to be so
gleefully embraced by the far right as
much as Pap Buchanan said that Forest
gum's conservatism was intentional it
didn't seem that way just about everyone
who worked on the film including its
lead Tom Hanks director Robert zekus and
screenwriter Eric Roth distanced
themselves from Buchanan's remarks
producer Steve Tish also tried to course
correct during his best picture
acceptance speech all over the political
map people have been calling Forest
their own but fars Gump isn't about
politics or conservative values it's
about Humanity it's about respect
tolerance and unconditional love but the
damage had been done Forest Gump had
already been sucked into the political
Maelstrom the National Review ranked
Forest Gump in a list of a 100 best
conservative movies of all time and also
named it the best picture inditing the
60s counterculture n grid spoke about
the film during a Congressional Campaign
rally the fall that came out the same
fall that the Republicans won a
historical 54 seats and took control of
the house for the first time since 1954
in what many deemed to be a conservative
Revolution overall it was a republican
Victory astonishing in scope and these
new managers promise it won't be
business as usual in 1995 so of course
the overwhelmingly conservative
political climate of the early and mid
1990s was a particular hotbed for ens
snaring unassuming media objects into
the culture War I mean look at what
happened with Dan quail and Murphy Brown
just a couple years before it doesn't
help matters when prime time TV has
Murphy Brown a character who supposedly
epitomizes today's intelligent highly
paid professional woman mocking the
importance of fathers by bearing a child
alone and calling it just another
lifestyle Choice it was clear the film
did not seem to belong to the left
writing for the Boston Globe Jay Carr
argued that democrats should have tried
harder to reclaim Forest Gump as their
own that maybe this would have given
them a boost in the election even Robert
seus acquiesced in 1997 that the reason
conservatives claimed Gump was because
unlike the left the right had the power
of rhetoric on their side which gave
them the ability to circulate meanings
about movies since then the movie has
only become more detestable to those
left of center there were early
detractors of course Jonathan Rosen Bal
called Forest Gump the most pernicious
movie of the year and Owen gleberman
said it was a baby boomer version of
Disney's America but it was really in
the following years that the hate for
Forest Gump would really take steam it
made it onto a whole bunch of buzfeed
listicles like nine reasons why Forest
Gump is actually the worst cracked did
an after hours debate on the film called
five racist and sexist messages hidden
in Forest Gump and esteemed film Journal
film comment ranked it fourth on their
list of worst Best Picture winners even
when I tease this video on my Community
page some people took to the comments to
Proclaim their hate for it but Forest
Gump is an undeniably well-made film I
loved it when I first watched it as a
tween so as much as it creators deny it
there has to be something about Forest
Gump that made it such catenate for
conservatives beyond the fact that
they're good at co-opting things did
Forest Gump have to be co-opted at all
or was it already full of conservative
messages to begin with which really
invites the question was it actually
unintentional
[Music]
as some of you may already know Forest
Gump the film was based on Forest Gump
the book by Winston groom groom who
passed away in 2020 was a Vietnam
veteran and DC native raised in Alabama
who got a start as a reporter for the
Washington Post he got theide idea for
Forest Gump his fourth novel after
hearing his father reminisce About a
slow-witted Boy from his childhood whose
mother taught him to play piano he then
married this with the concept of what he
calls the idiot savant a socially or
intellectually impaired person who
exhibits extreme aptitude at a specific
thing think of Barry levenson's Rainman
he what's your secret guys we cheat thus
we get Forest Gump the book which tells
the life story of a 6'6 240 lb
intellectually disabled man from Alabama
as he navigates the world of 20th
century America the book has often been
characterized as a pesque novel a type
of Pros fiction which William flint thrr
and Addison hiber Define in their
handbook to literature as a chronical
usually autobiographical presenting the
life story of a rascal of low degree
engaged in mental tasks and making his
living more through his wits than his
industry episodic in nature they say the
picaresque novel is in the usual sense
of the term structureless it presents
little more than a series of thrilling
incidents impossible to conceive as
happening in one life Forest Gump
definitely functions within the
structure it plays out more like a
series of vignettes rather than a
cohesive story and each episode
stretches far outside the reach of a
regular human life with Forest becoming
a college football star a war hero in
Vietnam a pingpong champion who saves
chairman mauo from drowning a master
chess player in astronaut and a
candidate for Senate like a picaresque
Forest Gump is expansive in nature but
while Forest is of low station and
definitely alienated from dominant
Society he of course can't get by on his
wits like the typical picaro protagonist
instead Forest Gump Bears specific
likeness to an 18th century picaresque
Nolla by voler called Candid because
while the titular character candid is
not intellectually disabled he is
astonishingly naive candid is the
bastard nephew of a baron who Begins the
story in a Garden of Eden like West
philan Castle studying under the the
tutelage of an overly optimistic
Professor Dr pangloss only to be
abruptly thrust into the real world when
he's evicted for kissing The Baron's
daughter cunon candid is a genuinely
hilarious book it's kind of like the
Original Series of Unfortunate Events
but much much more violent even for an
Enlightenment thinker voler was
incredibly ahead of his time opposing
slavery and promoting secularism both
ideas of which he incorporates into this
very Ry story which brings us to another
key element of the picaresque novel
satire again the tone of candid is very
important while the worst fate befalls
just about every character in the story
and poor well-meaning candid is forced
to Bear witness to all of it voler
delivers it to us with an air of
cheekiness because ultimately this story
is a conduit for his Enlightenment ideas
mainly to refute the LI nitan philosophy
that attempts to justify the
imperfections of our world by arguing
that it's the best of all possible
worlds Cid's tutor professor pangloss is
a standin for livets and over the course
of the story candid becomes more and
more disillusioned with his teachings at
the end after candid has witnessed all
the atrocities of the world himself
having been fogged survived shipwrecks
and earthquakes Fallen desperately ill
and lost the love of his life to
ugliness pangloss looks to candid and
tells him that everything bad that has
transpired is intertwined in this world
which is the best of all possible worlds
to which candid no longer buying the
[__] replies all that is very well
but let us cultivate our garden a rather
Progressive message a picaresque
protagonist doesn't necessarily have to
change or grow they can be either witty
or dimwitted but what is Central to
these stories is their satirical tone a
focus on the struggle for existence in a
hostile and chaotic world so in short
these stories are critical of our world
not celebratory of it and I'd argue that
Forest Gump the book while maybe less
overly Progressive than anything volter
would have put out sees the world in
this light lots of pretty awful things
happen to Forest he's bullied from a
young age he flunks out of college he
gets drafted into war and loses the only
best friend he ever had and more the
book is in groom's own words a story
about human dignity and the fact that
you don't have to be smart or Rich to
maintain your dignity even when some
pretty undignified things are happening
all around you this could be said for
both the book and the film but what
changes is what what exactly is
portrayed to be
[Music]
undignified there was a bidding war for
the rights to the book before it was
even published initially Warner Brothers
won the bid but after Rainman they
figured they couldn't make two Savant
movies 246 producer Wendy finerman who
was working for an independent company
at the time is the person who really
pushed for this movie to be made and
ironically she ended up in a bidding war
with her husband who were at Paramount
before the two along with Steve Tish
decided to team up and make it a
Paramount joint the episodic nature of
the story made it a really difficult one
to adapt to screen but finerman asked
her screenwriter friend Eric Roth to try
and write a draft which would take him a
year they sent the completed screenplay
to Tom Hanks who immediately signed on
and the film was green lit for a budget
of over $40
million and it's through Eric Roth that
Forest Gump ended up in the hands of
Robert zus if you're unfamiliar with
Robert zus no you're not he may not have
the most distinct film making Style with
a filmography ranging all over the place
and I've finally lost contact with
reality K from a camp classic like Death
Becomes Her on
guard to the Sci-Fi adventure mega
Blockbuster Back to the Future to the
Dark Fantasy comedy Who Framed Roger
Rabbit to the excruciatingly earnest
survival drama Cast
Away to the source of an entire
generation's childhood nightmares the
polar Express I'm probably the only
person on Earth who actually loves the
Polar Express but what it should tell
you is that Robert zamus is a man very
very preoccupied with the intersection
between film and Technology if we were
to place filmmakers on a spectrum from
Paul shraer Dying 58-year-old Michael
uol's hair black to make him look 19 and
James Cameron being the first person
anyone spoke to when that submarine
imploded zus would be right next to
Cameron it's why all he ever does now
was those godforsaken lifeless uncanny
valley collaborations with Disney but
seacus has made a lot of Mega hits in
his time and what joins them Al together
is his interest in history and the
concept of time aging backwards and
Death Becomes Her I'm a girl the
fleetingness of childhood in the Polar
Express or literally riding a time
machine and Back to the Future Back to
the Future especially is a predecessor
to Forest Gump with its emphasis on
American pop culture my name is Darth
fader and an almost reaganite Nostalgia
for the ' 50s the'80s America that our
hero Marty McFly lives in is dirty
pathetic and full of Vice his mother is
a drunk and his father is a loser and
his siblings are more of the same it's
an America that represents according to
scholar David Kerr an American Dream
gone mysteriously wrong but when Marty
travels back to the clean golden 50s and
corrects these wrongs in this case
defeating his father's high school bully
he drastically transforms his future now
his family is rich and successful and
best of all he's rewarded for his
heroism with the greatest token of
American success a big old car and of
course zamus tells the story through
some extremely advanced technology Roth
once recalled that zamus was primarily
interested in Forest Gump because it
required a lot of technological effects
which is no surprise according to Roth
he said you know me Eric if this is all
dialogue why would I want to do this
he's been very vocal about the fact that
he thought the film would be a fin risk
which very much informed a lot of his
decisions well i' I I got the screenplay
and read it and decided to do it and I
and and I think you know the the reverse
was the issue where you know when Tom
and I wanted to do this and we were
trying to convince the studio that it
was going to be something uh you know
something special because it doesn't
have anything that you can easily or
comfortably I mean it's got to be a
studio executive's worst nightmare you
know because it's like how do you sell
this thing kind of an issue
they were very brave they were very
brave and and uh they took a lot of risk
to make this film and U I'm glad they
did because we got a chance to do
something that's very different neither
zamus nor Roth seemed to very much like
Forest Gump the book while Winston groom
had been largely kind about the changes
they made to his novel they've been
quite disparaging about it Eric Roth for
example called the book Goofy and fical
while zamas has gone on record saying
stuff like this well the the the most
dramatic thing was and by the way that's
a really tough assignment because I
never finished the novel so good
luck um I started reading it and I
couldn't read it because it was so bad
and since the book was so goofy and
quote unquote bad they set out to give
it in their words more meaning so here's
what they did Forest Gump the film is
less like a picker resque story and more
like a coming of age for America a broad
survey of the country's 20th century
Chuck full of signs and symbols from
each decade the book is already stuffed
with Antics and Adventures but in his
technological Pursuits zamus includes a
whole number of iconic figures and
events for Forest to encounter he meets
Elvis as a child he ends up on a talk
show with John Lenin he meets John F
Kennedy at the White House ironically
all of whom die early tragic deaths for
Forest to innocently remark on and all
of whom are digitally transposed into
the film with groundbreaking CGI techn
ology when asked whether he's a bit of a
clauset historian interested in turning
points in American history zamus has
said this no I'm really interested in I
I love uh I love you know hisory I love
history American history I love I just
love history and I think that you know
uh uh yeah instead of whether I'm a
closet or an amateur historian or an
amateur sociologist I think that's what
you kind of have to be to be a filmmaker
a little bit but these questions are the
most I mean these questions are the
hardest questions to actually ask the
the
filmmaker I mean I can't I can't
interpret my own work but he doesn't
seem very interested in critically
engaging with any of this history Beyond
just referencing it tapping into our
base Nostalgia Forest Gump the film
sweeps across all these major cultural
events in a very surface level way and
that's because of the Viewpoint we're
watching it from which is forests like
the book Forest Gump the film opens with
Forest saying something about a box of
chocolates except the saying differs
book Forest says to the reader being an
idiot is no box of chocolates whereas
film Forest sitting on that now famous
bench says that now famous line life was
like a box of
chocolates you never know what you're
going to get what you notice from the
jump is that film Forest saying is
significantly more positive in tone
suggesting that life is full of
surprises welcome ones even like
chocolates where book Forest is letting
us know that it isn't easy living with a
cognitive
disability like book Forest film Forest
tells us his name comes from Confederate
Army General and first Grand wizard of
the KKK Nathan Bedford Forest book
Forest says his grandma who named him
always said they were a bunch of no
Goods whereas film Forest shows us some
pseudo-historical footage of the KKK
while he tells us in voice over that
they were a bunch of men who dressed up
in bed sheets and rode around on their
horses pretending to be ghosts both
forests get bullied in school due to
their cognitive impairments but film
Forest also has the added physical
impairment of leg braces from an unnamed
disability luckily though he discovers
he's a really fast runner from being
chased by The Neighborhood bullies and
in the film magically overcomes his
disability when his braces simply break
off forest's only friend is Jenny Curran
who like her book counterpart is a
pretty girl from school but unlike the
book is also a victim of childhood SA at
the hands of her father this essay
dictates much of Jenny's actions
throughout the film here's where film
forest and Jenny really start to differ
forest in the book has a pension for
cursing has sex actually a prolonged
intimate relationship with Jenny and is
actually impacted by the events around
him however little he understands them
when he's a teenager he's essayed by an
older female border staying at he and
his mother's estate who lurs him into
her room with a box of divinities he
continues to reference this EXP
experience into adulthood he manages to
dodge the draft and go to college by way
of a criminal charge against him after
people at a theater mistakenly think
he's assaulting Jenny there he plays
football and shows proclivities for
various skills like in math but
predictably he flunks out due to bad
grades he's devastated by this and gets
sent to Vietnam where he's confused and
horrified by the goings on there Forest
enjoys certain aspects of being in
Vietnam like discovering his skill at
playing the harmonica and later pingpong
and also getting to be there with his
best friend Bubba who he met at college
but he also speaks extensively about the
disorganization of the military
operations there and the many terrible
nights he spends sleeping in feces after
a latrine gets blown up when Bubba dies
after Forest tries in vain to save him
Forest is deeply affected he begs to no
avail to have the sergeant send Bubba
home in his plane and when Dan the
injured friend he makes in the hospital
after being shot in the butt is
transferred to a hospital back home
Forest has trouble believing that Dan is
still alive thinking that everyone is
lying to him about it most significantly
on a number of occasions Forest publicly
expresses that he thinks the war is a
quote load of [__] he even says this to
Mao zidong on a trip to China Forest
also isn't always good or perceived to
be good within the world of the book he
saves ma from drowning and gets
reprimanded for not letting him die for
the sake of America and while he says
that the quote colored folks in Alabama
are much nicer to him than the ones he's
also capable of being a bit racist in
the way so many small town small-minded
Americans were and still are he's
especially ignorant towards Vietnamese
and Chinese people as well as the
villagers he encounters when a spaceship
crashes in New Guinea ultimately book
forist is very human he swears he
fornicates he does drugs he has feelings
and he's a realistic product of his
environment film Forest on the other
hand is and does none of these things he
remains a virgin throughout the film
until he loses it to Jenny very late in
life producing a child he's singularly
devoted to Jenny until the very end as
well as his mother who book Forest more
or less ignores when she ends up in the
poor house after their house set fire
other than when he says this to Jenny
I'm not a smart man but I know what love
is film Forest doesn't show a lot of
emotion with regards to the events
happening around him while he's less of
a savant than book Forest he excels as
an athlete and doesn't flunk out of
college never has a run in with the law
never does drugs never swears instead of
getting drafted into the army he enlists
and while Bubba now a black character
with a distended lip who he meets in the
Army dies in Vietnam and Forest is sad
about it he doesn't much bear the signs
of any trauma beyond that instead
happily eating ice cream in the hospital
while he recovers unlike book Forest
he's completely unaware of racism in one
added scene Forest pops into a televised
speech being made by segregationist
George Wallace and instead of focusing
on what Wallace is saying the camera
pans to forest's confused face in the
background when asked at a peace rally
about his thoughts on the war Forest
doesn't say it's a load of [__] his mic
is unplugged right before he can answer
and so conspicuously he and the film Say
Nothing at All Jenny on the other hand
is given a lot more substance in the
movie almost too much as Richard corus
writes in a 1994 article for time in
pumping up Jenny's role screenwriter
Eric Roth transferred all of forest's
flaws and most of the excesses Americans
committed in the' 60s and70s to her they
turn Jenny from forest's dream girl to a
different kind of fantasy of the tragic
broken woman like I said Jenny is a
victim of childhood sa she becomes a
sort of nudie folk performer at a Rony
strip club she dates a black panther
adjacent civil rights activists who
beats her she does heroin she attempts
to end her life twice
and then a few laters after reconciling
with forest and giving birth to his baby
she dies of AIDS literally none of this
happens in the book book Jenny is a girl
who dabbles in the counterculture and
occasionally flits in and out of
forest's life she does have forest's
baby but ends up raising him with her
partner upon Forest request to be absent
from his son's life quote so he won't
have no PE brain for a daddy whereas
film Forest raises their son all on his
own as a widower and even though her
role is much smaller in the book
she's somehow less elusive than film
Jenny more human rather than a male
fantasy who exists to emphasize the
moral goodness of our
protagonist so what meaning was added
here well in flattening Forest into a
pretty one-dimensional morally pure
character the filmmakers transform him
from being a grown man with cognitive
disabilities to more or less an
idealistic child a man who maintains his
50s crew cut and infantile worldview for
the majority of the film film serving as
a symbolic moral core rather than a real
character and by displacing all of
forest flaws onto Jenny who serves as
Forest entry point into the world of 60s
and70s counterculture the film creates a
hard division between these two
characters Forest comes to represent the
purity of the past not un likened Back
to the Future and Jenny represents the
Hedonism and moral degradation of the
present as much as the filmmakers say
Forest Gump is an apolitical film their
approach to Jenny says otherwise unlike
Forest Jenny is aware of the hardships
of the world and the unrest in her
country but she suffers for it she's
lost and flailing her hippie partner is
an abuser his friends the Black Panthers
are portrayed as angry rambling zealots
rather than Freedom Fighters risking
their lives for Progress the
counterculture in this film is joyless
pointless hedonistic and
self-destructive and his participants
are punished accordingly wherefore who
has no ideology why are you doing this I
just felt like running and who doesn't
change with the times is a lone
survivor not only that when Jenny sleeps
with him for the first time she sheds
her hippie Garb in exchange for a
virginal white night dress the ultimate
symbol of Purity after Her diagnosis she
abandons her life in the city and moves
in with Forest marrying him and thus
securing a nuclear family unit before
dying for her sins Maybe I'm being
dramatic maybe all the movie wants to do
is to tell us a tragic love story but
when we scrutinize these deliberate
changes to groom's book it's tough to
see it any other way if you still don't
buy it take the changes made to
Lieutenant Dan in the film Dan is
forest's Commander whose entire ancestry
fought and died in American wars Dan is
injured in battle and saved against his
will by Forest he loses both legs and
becomes a bitter alcoholic who struggles
to find work that is until he finds God
running a shrimping business with forest
in the end he swords a crew cut gets a
pair of prosthetic legs and an Asian
wife and lives happily ever after Forest
meets Dan of the books in the hospital
and Dan not only has no legs but a very
disfigured face as well Dan struggles
with homelessness Upon returning to the
us as so many veterans do once they're
no longer seen as valuable to their
country he doesn't get married or cut
his hair in the end but instead moves to
New Orleans with forest and an
orangutang named Sue long story
in the book Dan spends a lot of time
philosophizing to Forest about life and
teaches him many important things namely
the idea that we live in a world where
the only way to survive is to keep your
head down this goes back to that
picaresque idea of surviving in a
hostile world and it's something Forest
has to learn time and time again
especially when he's already at such a
disadvantage but in the film it's Forest
who changes Lieutenant Dan Dan is
physically disabled and has a right to
be bitter about almost losing his life
to an utterly pointless war and while
it's nice that Forest helps Dan find
purpose and fulfillment his
reintroduction to society by way of
Conformity isn't exactly the most
realistic or productive way to represent
the impacts of the Vietnam War it's not
a war we should be tying a Hollywood Bow
around Forest doesn't even explicitly
learn that he has to keep his head down
the film rather suggests that it's not
so much keeping your head down as it is
being empty-headed that will help you
survive be successful even in
America that's the meaning they
imposed and what's the result of this
well because Forest is so stripped back
he operates like a bit of a blank canvas
onto which anyone can project their own
beliefs pair that with a rather
disinterested verging on disdainful
approach to 60s counterculture in a
bunch of empty historical references and
what you get is catnet for
conservatives since it came out there
have been accounts of people taking what
they see and Forest Gump as a
beautifully conservative film one poll
in 1994 For example which was definitely
not drawn from the most accurate data
sample found that 34% of Americans who
voted Republican that year thought that
Forest Gump was a documentary of course
we're going to take that with a massive
grain of salt but the way Pat Buchanan
and new grid latched onto it and managed
to sweep the election a voter base that
believes this movie is fact certainly
would have served them well the
perceived messaging of the film was so
powerful that Michael Connor humph who
played young Forest actually enlisted in
the Army and fought in Iraq citing that
he was inspired by the idea that
Lieutenant Dan wanted to die on the
field with honor while the film takes an
obnoxiously nothing stance on the war
Wendy finerman has said that her
proudest achievement of Forest Gump is
that it became a movie of the military a
strange goal for a film that depicts a
war like the one in
Vietnam the film may be clearly
fictional but its incorporation of real
historical footage through the detached
eye of forest can operate a bit like
what historian Allison lansburg calls
prosthetic memory individual viewers of
these mass media objects absorbing what
they see on screen as events that they
themselves experienced both individually
and collectively films as iconic as
Forest Gump become Amalgamated into an
American national memory as historically
revisionist as they may be in zamus and
Roth disre guarding the book and
adapting it as heavily as they did they
managed to take all of the fast moving
aspects of the picaresque novel but
removed all of its satire unlike candid
or book Forest film Forest is no more
disillusioned by the end of the film
he's heartbroken about Jenny for sure
but he remains as optimistic pure of
heart and devoted as he was when the
film started as scholar David lavy
observes virtually every decision made
in altering Winston groom's novel for
the screen can be seen in retrospect as
a kind of self-censorship for profit
reconceptualizing of a candid likee
novel appropriate to the era of the
death of irony what we get is a film
that isn't critical of our world but
celebratory of it it's a film pangloss
would love which brings us to why if
zamas and Roth insist their film is
apolitical and to belong to a generally
liberal industry why did they make their
film the way they did
[Music]
well that's obvious money zamus was
worried that Forest scump would be a
financial disaster so all of the changes
he made were in service of creating a
movie with as wide an appeal as possible
rather than alienating viewers with
forest's flaws he transformed him into
the most ideal American Everyman an
aspirationally vacant figure that anyone
could relate to lavy hits the nail on
the head the decision to alter grooms
Twain likee sarcasm into the film's
modelin folk wisdom was not a literary
or cinematic one it was a marketing
decision all of the decisions made to
scrub Forest to inflate Jenny's
character to have them get married to
give Dan a happy ending to strip all
politics out of the film to reference
iconic figures is to create a romantic
vision of America the perfect Hollywood
film in a seminal book postmodernism
Frederick Jameson argued is that in our
postmodern world parody has been
replaced by pasti the phenomenon where a
work of art imitates something that came
before it but unlike parody is reverent
of that thing Jameson describes pasti as
an imitation of a peculiar mask
amputated of the satiric impulse that
defines parody you could certainly say
that in comparison to its source
material Forest Gump the film is more
pasti than picaresque Jameson says The
Disappearance of history is countered by
the attempt to map out our history
through images that have no relation to
other moments in time and as a result
attempt to satisfy a craving for history
with a product that is a substitute for
it like I said Forest Gump satiates our
desire for Nostalgia Taps into it and
like Back to the Future this Nostalgia
tends to be for a clean wholesome time
before 1960 came and changed everything
in another essay on this topic Jameson
relates it to mass culture he argues
that both modernism and mass culture
entertain relations of repression with
the fundamental social anxieties and
concerns hopes and blind spots
ideological anies and fantasies of
disaster which are their raw material
only where modernism tends to handle
this material by producing compensatory
structures of various kinds mass culture
represses them by the narrative
construction of imaginary resolutions
and by the projection of an optical
illusion of social harmony and that's
exactly what's happening with Forest
Gump in order to construct a happy
Hollywood ending and appeal to the
masses it portrays social dissent as
pointless and redeems its biggest agent
Jenny of her sins welcoming her back
into more traditional Society this is so
often the problem with popular film
making it assumes the viewer is a blank
canvas that needs to be fed and satiated
rather than a person with a specific
Viewpoint it makes forests of us all in
a world that is significantly more
complicated than a box of chocolates
ever could
be stage business and I just want to
folks White House china ultimately I
don't think Forest Gump is necessarily a
rotten film it's just a popular one
wildly popular in the early '90s when
product placement was just taking over
our screens Mark crisen Miller lamented
about it in the Atlantic he says that
movies have always used visual trickery
to manipulate our emotions but now they
have the appendage of techn iCal
advancements that can make this trickery
all the more powerful and they were
doing so not only to manipulate our
emotions but to ctly sell stuff to us
too he quotes an ad exec for Pepsi who
once said that it wasn't important that
the viewer read every scene just that
they get the impact of the message I'd
say the same for Forest Gump it's an
undeniably well-made entertaining and
extremely compelling film sure to have
even the most cynical of viewers
shedding a tear as Forest stands over
his wife's grave and says this I miss
you J but its cinematic trickery
conspicuous omissions and perplexing
additions emphasis on the emotional over
the social and romantic sentimentality
where there should be satire is why so
many conservatives back then saw it as a
mouthpiece the consequence is that
Forest Gump did have immediate Mass
Appeal as its creators intended but in
the years to follow it's aged like milk
and that's all I had to say about about
that Robert seus changed Forest scump to
make it appeal to as many people as
possible but there are some filmmakers
who do the exact opposite who make films
that are sure to shed at least half
Their audience on an initial viewing my
series taboo on screen is about these
filmmakers people who shun popular
filmmaking to instead explore the ugly
morally gray and taboo aspects of
humanity and in doing so attempt to
crack open our World Views successfully
or not want you can find Tabo on screen
exclusively on nebula nebula is a
streaming service that's Creator founded
and Creator Le which means we get a ton
of creative control over the videos we
make right now you can see taboo on
screen as well as all my past videos add
free on nebula and you can even watch
nebula videos offline with their app in
taboo on screen we look at films that
challenge and sometimes offend our
sensibilities covering difficult topics
like whether we should get rid of sex
scenes the films of Todd salons Brook
Shields and the controversy around
pretty baby and the Wacky World of John
Waters taboo on screen is just one of a
whole host of prestige original series
on nebula made by some of your favorite
creators we're taking the art of video
making to a whole other level and
providing a wide range of thoughtful
content you can think of nebula like
Netflix for people who love cultural
commentary and an impossibly wide range
of other fascinating subjects as well if
you like my videos and if you like Tabo
on screen then you'll definitely love
unrated a nebula original series by
Maggie fish where she dives into the
history of sex and sexuality on the big
screen you can also find Be Kind Rewind
on nebula and many many of my other
favorite creators like princess weeks
and Patrick Williams if you're
interested in watching some really
amazing original content you can sign up
using the link below and you can support
me directly and get nebula for a 40% off
annual plans then there's lifetime
memberships which cost $300 and last you
forever no tricks no gimmicks just you
me and Eternity baby go do it you won't
regret it so go to
nebula.jpg
Cooper Stimson Nadia C Nick Jenny Eller
J Frost mcfinnigan Gabriel M the whz
Daniel Edward U Andrew nuan Connor
O'Keefe Sharma Daniel sardonis Jena Ryan
blle Maya CA Naomi nakagawa Scott
Barnett Julia kampana Alexis nafis
bulock Carrie Gavin RSS free Holstrom
Alex short and Kelly wolf for supporting
this channel